---
author: iblech
date: 2019-11-27 13:07:00+00:00
title: Seminar
---

Wednesday, November 27th, 2019, 15:30, Sala riunioni secondo piano.

[Davide Trotta](https://webapps.unitn.it/du/en/Persona/PER0179811) (Università degli Studi di Trento)\
_Doctrines in categorical logic and the existential completion_

*Abstract:* The notion of hyperdoctrine was introduced by F.W. Lawvere in a
series of seminal papers to synthesize the structural properties of logical
systems. His crucial intuition was to consider logical languages and theories
as indexed categories and to study their 2-categorical properties. For
instance, connectives and quantifiers are determined by adjunctions. In this
seminar we introduce the notions of primary and existential doctrine, which
generalize that of hyperdoctrine, and we present the existential completion. In
particular we show how we can add left adjoints along certain functors to a
primary doctrine obtaining an existential doctrine. Moreover we show that the
2-monad obtained from this free construction is lax-idempotent, and that the
2-category of existential doctrines is isomorphic to the 2-category of algebras
for this 2-monad. Finally we extend the notion of exact completion of an
elementary existential doctrine to an arbitrary elementary doctrine.

---

Wednesday, November 27th, 2019, 16:45, Sala riunioni secondo piano.

Branko Nikolić (Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia)\
_On Directed Colimits of Hilbert Spaces_

*Abstract:* We will show that the category of Hilbert spaces and contractions
has directed colimits, and that tensoring preserves them. We will also discuss
(problems with) the generalization to bounded maps.
