---
author: ioiops
date: 2023-11-15 12:55:41+00:00
title: Seminar
---

Thursday, 23 November 2023, [Aula G (Ca' Vignal 2)](https://www.di.univr.it/?ent=luogo&id=29).

___

17:00

[Rolf Hennicker](https://www.sosy-lab.org/people/hennicker/) (LMU Munich)
 
_Epistemic Ensembles_

 in cooperation with A. Knapp (Univ. of Augsburg)
and M. Wirsing (LMU Munich)

An ensemble is formed by a collection of agents which
run concurrently to accomplish (together) a certain task.
For that purpose agents must collaborate in some way,
for instance by explicit interaction via message passing.
In this talk we present an epistemic approach where
collaboration is based on the knowledge that agents have
about themselves, about other agents and about their
environment. Any change of knowledge caused by an action
of one agent may influence the behaviour of other agents.
Hence, interaction is implicit.

For specifying properties of epistemic ensembles we propose
a dynamic logic style such that necessary and possible
ensemble behaviours are expressed by modalities on (complex)
epistemic actions. Our semantic models are labelled transition
systems with ensemble actions as labels. Such transitions
model two aspects, (i) the control flow of an ensemble and
(ii) changes of epistemic information caused by the epistemic
effect of an agent action.

Epistemic ensembles are implemented by epistemic processes,
one for each ensemble agent, which are composed in parallel
to form an ensemble realisations. We provide a structured
operational semantics for such processes which allows us to
introduce a (formal) correctness notion: An ensemble realisation
is correct w. r. t. an ensemble specification if its semantics
is an epistemic model of the specification. Two ensemble
realisations are equivalent, if their models are epistemically
bisimilar. We show that this can be checked by checking
bisimilarity of their single processes in the usual sense
of process algebra.
